# Events {.unnumbered}

An Event refers to a site with a specific longitude and latitude where wildlife health data are collected on a particular date and during a particular time period.

What an 'Event' represents will inevitably vary depending on the Surveillance Activity methodology. In targeted surveillance efforts, an Event may represent a sampling session of animals within a specific time and space window. The inclusion of non-sampled individuals might or might not be considered as part of the Event. In passive disease surveillance, wildlife morbidity and mortality found by rangers patrolling a protected area could correspond to an Event at a specific moment in time. Such an Event can involve a single dead animal or animals of different species. If samples are collected from a river, the 'Event' can be considered the site where the water is extracted. In the case of surveillance for vector-borne diseases, an Event might represent a specific point in time and space where vectors are collected during a period of time. In the case of beached fish, an Event can represent, on one extreme, each individual dead fish recorded at time X, or on the other extreme, it can represent the total count of dead fish across the beach at time X. 

Similarly, a wet market can be a Location and each Event within that Location can either represent each vendor, each stall within a vendor, or each cage in a stall. It is up to the users to define what unit the Event represents and report it in the Surveillance Activity metadata. 

A structured research can have multiple levels of hierarchy (zone, grid, area, grid cell, trap, etc.) and one of these the units will be declared the Event (receives the temporal-spatial coordinates). In this structured study, the 'Event' could represent a trap whilst in another one with the same units the Event could represent a grid cell. 

Just like Locations, an Event and its contents (Source Records and Specimens) can be grouped so the data reflects the clustered structure of Events. See "Grouping of Locations, Events, and Record Sources". 

Each Event can contain multiple Source Records of any type (a con-specific group, individual animals, environmental tissue, or arthropod collection; see 'Source Records' section below). The contents of an Event depend on the elements that are observed or collected from it. Depending on the objectives of the Surveillance Activity, the documentation of healthy individuals is also possible and recommended. Environmental features can be documented as part of the Event itself or the Location or both (general features where the Event is taking place and specific features at the Event itself). Events can lack of any Source Records (see below) if, for example, an Event represents a planned bat sampling session at a specific site but no bat is actually captured. When an Event involves active capture or collection of arthropods and environmental tissue, the capture effort is also reported as part of the Event.

A Location (an area) and an Event (a point) could both be spatial units of interest. But this is not a requirement. It could be that the Location is the main spatial unit of interest and the position of the Events within the Location is not relevant for the Surveillance Activity. For example, traps within a grid cell provide Source Records (see "source Records") and each one of them is recorded as part of a specific Event within the grid cell. It could be that the methodology of the Surveillance Activity cares about the collections completed in a grid cell but not about the specific position of the traps within that grid cell. In this case, the Location would be reported as the main of interest for the Surveillance Activity metadata, the Locations should be entered to the database as a attached spatial file, it must be reported in the Surveillance Activity metadata that the Events are not a main unit of interest; however, the Events should still be given a longitude and latitude within the Location. For other scenarios, it must be reported in the Surveillance Activity metadata if the Location, Event, or both are of interest for the Surveillance Activity metadata.

